RFC 788: Bedrock AgentCore Memory L2 construct (#825)
aws/aws-cdk-rfcs: text/0788-bedrock-agentcore-memory-l2.md

// Create memory with custom execution role
const memory = new agentcore.Memory(this, "MyMemory", {
  memoryName: "my_memory",
  description: "Memory with custom execution role",
  expirationDays: cdk.Duration.days(90),
 // executionRole: executionRole,
});
```

```typescript fixture=default
// Create a custom semantic memory strategy
const customSemanticStrategy = agentcore.MemoryStrategy.usingSemanticOverride({
  name: "customSemanticStrategy",
  description: "Custom semantic memory strategy",
  namespaces: ["/custom/strategies/{memoryStrategyId}/actors/{actorId}"],
  customConsolidation: {
    model: bedrock.BedrockFoundationModel.ANTHROPIC_CLAUDE_3_5_SONNET_V1_0,
    appendToPrompt: "Custom consolidation prompt for semantic memory",
  },
  customExtraction: {
    model: bedrock.BedrockFoundationModel.ANTHROPIC_CLAUDE_3_5_SONNET_V1_0,
    appendToPrompt: "Custom extraction prompt for semantic memory",
  },
});

// Create memory with custom strategy
const memory = new agentcore.Memory(this, "MyMemory", {
  memoryName: "my-custom-memory",
  description: "Memory with custom strategy",
  expirationDays: cdk.Duration.days(90),
  memoryStrategies: [customSemanticStrategy],
});
```

> 

Reviewer: And to answer your question, yes, depending on the overrides we choose the L1 type. So if the user is overriding the name and namespace only, we can still use the base shape, but if the user also wants to override the consolidation and extraction, then we map to the other custom L1 type

- **Extensibility**: Support for custom models and prompts
- **Type Safety**: Strong typing for better developer experience

## Interfaces

The construct library provides comprehensive interfaces for Memory services:

<will add link here to the public pull request containing all interfaces>

### Is this a breaking change?

No. This is a new construct library for Amazon Bedrock AgentCore Memory.
It does not affect existing constructs.

### What alternative solutions did you consider?

### What are the drawbacks of this solution?

### What is the high-level project plan?

**Phase 1: RFC**:

- Submit RFC proposal for creating the AgentCore Memory L2 construct
- Design the initial interface and helper methods
- Monitor the release of L1 constructs

**Phase 2: Development**:

- Create Memory module with strategy support
- Implement built-in strategies
- Add custom strategy support
- Create comprehensive unit tests
- Write comprehensive API documentation

**Phase 3: Post-Launch**:

- Publish launch blog and announcement posts
- Regular updates to track AgentCore service changes
- Add support for additional extraction strategies

> ### Are there any open issues that need to be addressed later?

Reviewer 2: As you mentioned earlier, the self-managed memory strategy have not had their Cloudformation API exposed yet. We should just mention this in the RFC so that we are aware of this in the future.

   - Namespace: `/strategies/{memoryStrategyId}/actors/{actorId}`

3. **User Preference Strategy** (`MemoryStrategy.usingBuiltInUserPreference()`)
Captures individual preferences, interaction patterns, and personalized settings to enhance future experiences.
Extracted memory example: User needs clear guidance on cloud storage account connection during onboarding.

   - Extracts user behavior patterns from raw conversations
   - Namespace: `/strategies/{memoryStrategyId}/actors/{actorId}`

```typescript fixture=default
// Create memory with built-in strategies
const memory = new agentcore.Memory(this, "MyMemory", {
  memoryName: "my_memory",
  description: "Memory with built-in strategies",
  expirationDays: cdk.Duration.days(90),
  memoryStrategies: [
    agentcore.MemoryStrategy.usingBuiltInSummarization(),
    agentcore.MemoryStrategy.usingBuiltInSemantic(),
    agentcore.MemoryStrategy.usingBuiltInUserPreference(),
  ],
});
```

The name generated for each built in memory strategy the followin pattern:

- For Summarization: `summary_builtin_<suffix>`
- For Semantic:`semantic_builtin_<suffix>`
- For User Preferences: `preference_builtin_<suffix>`

> Where the suffix is a 5 characters string ([a-z, A-Z, 0-9]).

Reviewer 3: done in 
12000c5

- **Type Safety**: Strong typing for better developer experience

## Interfaces

The construct library provides comprehensive interfaces for Memory services:

All interfaces are available in the public pull request: https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/35757

### Is this a breaking change?

No. This is a new construct library for Amazon Bedrock AgentCore Memory.
It does not affect existing constructs.

### What alternative solutions did you consider?

### What are the drawbacks of this solution?

### What is the high-level project plan?

**Phase 1: RFC**:

- Submit RFC proposal for creating the AgentCore Memory L2 construct
- Design the initial interface and helper methods
- Monitor the release of L1 constructs

**Phase 2: Development**:

- Create Memory module with strategy support
- Implement built-in strategies
- Add custom strategy support
- Create comprehensive unit tests
- Write comprehensive API documentation

**Phase 3: Post-Launch**:

- Publish launch blog and announcement posts
- Regular updates to track AgentCore service changes
- Add support for additional extraction strategies

### Are there any open issues that need to be addressed later?

> Self managed strategy is not available yet, it will be added as a long term memory strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Self-managed memory strategy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock-agentcore/latest/devguide/memory-self-managed-strategies.html) does not have an exposed CloudFormation interface yet. It will be added later as a long term memory strategy once it is exposed.
```

Reviewer 3: done in 
12000c5

For example: An agent helps multiple users with cloud storage setup. From these conversations,
see how each strategy processes users expressing confusion about account connection:

> 1. **Summarization Strategy** (`MemoryStrategy.usingBuiltInSummarization(scope)`)

Reviewer 2: No scope is needed here, the L2 of the memory construct would go through its builtin strategies and set their name this way. How it does that is an implementation detail, you don't need to specify how its done in the RFC.

- For Semantic:`semantic_builtin_<suffix>`
- For User Preferences: `preference_builtin_<suffix>`

> Where the suffix is a 5 characters string ([a-z, A-Z, 0-9]) generated via the `Names.uniqueId(scope)`.

Reviewer 2: The unique id is not necessarily 5 characters long.

```suggestion
Where the suffix is generated via the `Names.uniqueId(scope)`.
```

Reviewer 3: done in [d12334e](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/pull/825/commits/d12334eb24479b24b9504010254dfc09092efc7f)
